Let's learn about the python data types.
All the options we have in Python.
NOW WE'RE BACK TO OUR REPTILE thought I.D. So again write some python code we see over here that we're
using python version three point six.
That's great.
Let's minimize this and start writing our first Python code.
Now we're going to talk about data types and Python has several available to us.
Now I'm going to list them out for you and then we're going to talk about each one individually.
First we have something called it and you see right away when I type I have the ripple already give
me a hint and it's highlighting it.
If I hover over it it shows me that it stands for integer.
We also have something called float.
We have ball which stands for boolean.
We have SDR which stands for string list tuple set and dict.
Now what are these.
These are data types right a data type is a value in python so you can think of it as exactly that values.
So it would represent all numbers for example string will represent all letters for example in a program
is simply instructions that tell a computer what to do and what does that mean.
It's all about storing information or a data type and modifying that information.
We're taking actions on these data types so the two crucial steps when learning a programming language
is that well we have these data types that we need to understand that exist in a language and then we
need to learn how we can manipulate the data create store read change remove this data from the machine.
Now these data types are called the fundamental data types in Python.
They are the core to the language now after the fundamental data types.
We also have something called classes so beyond these data types we can actually create our own using
something called classes so these will be custom types.
Again something that we'll learn about.
So I can create a class that I can name whatever I want.
For example super car.
Now that doesn't exist but I can create it and we'll explore how to do that in the course now.
Besides the fundamental data types the classes which will be arc own custom types we also have something
called specialized data types
and these specialized data types.
They're not built into python but they're special packages and modules that we can use from libraries.
Now again this is a topic that we'll cover later.
But these are you can think of it as extra boost whenever we don't have a data type that we want in
the standard Python package and maybe we don't want to create our own custom types.
There are specialized data types that we can use from what we call modules so you can think of it as
extensions that we can add to the language.
Again something that we'll talk about later on in the course.
And then finally there's another type that is a little special called none and none.
As you can see it's being highlighted which means it means something in the language none as the name
suggests means nothing.
It's kind of like the idea of zero in math it's the absence of value.
It's simply nothing.
And you'll see why this is important in programming later on.
So these are our data types that we're going to talk and we're going to use in our language.
Now we're going to start with the fundamental data types which are nice and simple for us to get through.
So let's start one by one and you know what.
Let's start with these two for now.
I'll see you in the next one but my.